# yelptest_sentiment

Overview

Testing restaurant customers sentiment towards
sustainable practices
Sustainable business practices and sentiment analysis on Yelp restaurant reviews
Introduction
While we don’t always have the opportunity to prepare and eat meals our own meals, there are always restaurant ready to cater to us.  Depending on individual lifestyles, naturally we have to rely on food establishments - dinning both in and out.  I don’t think I am alone in holding the opinion that a good restaurant is characterized as being great when not only simply considering how the food that is served taste.  Food based businesses vary greatly but what can we say makes a restaurant really great and how could we define great?  The answer can vary significantly depending on who you ask and defining great can be done from performing analysis on existing users’ reviews. 

Yelp is often loosely categorised as an adjunct social network based on its active community of reviewers. It ranks with top twenty western world most used online platforms considering that is has an average of 75 million mobile web unique visitors.  Yelp explicitly provides crowd sourced business reviews and local searches, is highly prolific and user feedback has been shown to have a significant impact on a business’s success. (Yu et, al., 2017). You don’t need an account to do a local business search, you’ll also find yelp reviews paired to Apple maps.   YELP allows users to look how others have measured their experience with the business found on the platform.  In this report, using natural language processing, I seek to determine whether a businesses commitment to being a sustainable company impacts its Yelp rating or if it even can be demonstrated to be represented. 
 
When I read that 70 percent of all businesses in the United States have included sustainability at some level of their core operational values I feel encouraged. However, in term of consumer behavior it has been reported that only 35 percent of consumers are willing to pay more for green, sustainable, and local services.    

At the beginning of October (2018) the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPC) release a Special Report on Global Warming outlining that “limiting global warming to 1.5°C would require rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society” .  In this paper I try to establish and report whether there is a tendency in restaurant customers to look favourably to restaurants that uphold a eco-social responsibility.  When I speak about good for the planet I don’t seek to measure based on my pwn personal biases so I have chosen to us the UN sustainable development goals (USD) as a benchmark.  The IPC outlines that we have only 11 years to reduces our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by half.  For me food is so closely tied to the environment.  Yelp has been rolling out a feature that shares restaurant health department scores and just this year this feature covers 42 states in the US.  What if Yelp shared a sustainable development score that evaluated eco-social performance that true accounting of the negative extranlities of bad business practices. The research problem and question should be clearly specified here



Summary:  In this project, an analysis of the Yelp Academic Data Set was done using a Support Vector Machine.  The goal of this process was to apply a machine learning model to analyze with accuracy, whether review comment were positive or negative.  Using this model the goal was to determine what feed back if any customers shared about environmental priorities.  Are reviewers more or less likely to give a good review if food is say local 
 customers who are likely to sign up for a term deposit based on data on their demographic characteristics (such as age, education, occupation, etc.) and their response to a previous marketing campaign. Prior to constructing the model, we explored the dataset and determined the correlations between the various factors (both numeric and categorical) and the class attribute. Next, we analyzed the dataset using three classification algorithms, namely, the J48 Decision Tree algorithm, the Naïve Bayes algorithm, and the Random Forest algorithm. We evaluated the three models in terms of their precision values and found that the Random Forest algorithm yielded the best result with respect to precision (weighted average precision values for J48, Naïve Bayes, and Random Forest were 0.875, 0.880, and 0.882, respectively). After classification, we ran a post-predictive analysis on the dataset using the K-means clustering algorithm. Using the elbow method, the optimal number of clusters was determined to be 4. The clustering analysis suggested that the most likely customer is about 50 years in age and having a management job. Further, they are likely to have some kind of post-secondary school education and be married. In terms of existing finances, they are likely to never have defaulted on a loan with the bank or have an existing home loan and have a small annual balance.
Since social media can feasibly play a role by way of clues to action, whereby certain cues can influence behaviour (Ariyasriwatana et al. , 2014)


Literature Review
current knowledge including substantive findings, as well as theoretical and methodological 

I relied on a variety of support material to provide a good sense of current knowledge around opinion mining using large collections of unstructured text, exploring current theoretical concepts around conducting text based analysis of social networks data, and reviewing reports on experimental methodologies.  I was satisfied with my success in finding material that supported analyzing Yelp data from the point of view of public health and sustainable development.
In term of current knowledge, I was able to find studies evaluated opportunities for opinion mining that monitor food and public health.  The article, Catagorizing Health Related Cues to Action, Building a National Neighborhood Dataset … and Supplementing Public Health Inspection via Social Media, provided good supporting information.  The first two studied how social networks provide opportunities for looking at trends in food. The third article examined the opportunities in using social media to distribute health related public service information. The intent to show opportunity and reward restaurants with favorable reviews is real since social media can feasibly play a role, by way of cues to action, whereby certain cues can influence behaviour. (Ariyasriwatana et al. , 2014)

Current theoretical evidence supports accelerating a change in behaviour to limit further economic activity that contributes to climate change; business can be sustainable and profitable too.  I found supporting evidence for finance and business to get behind evaluating for environmental social and governance (ESG) as a necessary business practice. Supporting Sustainable Development Goals Is Easier Than You Might Think, The Yelp of Green Businesses and Reviews, Reputation, and Revenue: The Case of Yelp.com.  The third describes the influence reviews have on relative success of business rated on Yelp.

Since this project uses the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) as a framework for analysing Yelp review, The International Council for Science’s Guide to SDG Interactions: from Science to Implementation described the challenges and complexities and interaction between the individual goals. In the World Economic Forum’s report, Innovation with a Purpose: The role of technology innovation in accelerating food systems transformation the Chief Innovation Officer, of IBM reinforces how busineses must act to support technological innovation for the food systems and contribute tspecifically towards global food systems that benefit farmers, consumers and the planet.  Challenges that the SDG’s seek to address.

The remaining articles focused on the more granular methodology for conduction sentiment analysis.  Character-level Convolutional Networks for Text Classification provides a thorough comparitaive analysys of testing erros of different text classification methods for natural language processing.  Evidence shows that both n-grams and TF-IDF (td-idf and SVM where used in my analysis) remain strong candidates.  Identifying Restaurant Features via Sentiment Analysis on Yelp Reviews provided the best proof of concept for my project.  Like this last article I attempt to evaluate sentiment based on features.  The feature in my project being concepts drawn from the text of the 17 goals outlined in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
